# Chapter7 Six Keys to a Great Trading System

1. Reliability or what percentage of time you make money. For example, do you make money on 60 percent of your investments and lose money on 40 percent of them?
2. The relative size of your profits compared to your losses when traded at the smallest possible level (that is, one share of stock or one futures contract). For example, the relative size would be the same if you lost $1 per share on losing trades and made $1 per share on winning trades. However, the relative size would be quite different if you made $10 per share on winning trades and only lost $1 per share on losing trades.
3. Your cost of making an investment or trade. This is the destructive force on your account size whenever you trade. It’s your execution costs and your brokerage commissions. These costs can really accumulate over many trades. Day trading used to be prohibitive because of these costs, but even with today’s dramatically reduced commissions, they are still a factor that you must consider if you are very active.
4. How often you get the opportunity to trade. Now imagine holding the first three variables constant. Their combined effect would then depend on how
often you trade. The results will be much different if you make 100 trades each day compared with 100 trades each year.
5. Your positionsizing model or how many units you trade at one time (that is, 1 share of stock versus 10,000 shares of stock). Obviously, the amount you win or lose per share is multiplied by the number of shares you trade.
6. The size of your trading-investing capital. The effect of the first four variables on your account depends significantly on the size of your account. For example, the cost of trading will have a significantly greater effect on a $1,000 account than it will on a million dollar account. If it costs $20 to trade, then you would take a 2 percent hit on each trade in the $1,000 account before you’d make a profit. As a result, you’d have to average more than 2 percent profit per trade just to cover the cost of trading. However, the impact of the same $20 in costs becomes insignificant (that is, 0.002 percent) if you have a million dollar account. Similarly, a $500 loss will decimate a $1,000 account, but it will have almost no effect (that is, 0.05 percent) on a million dollar account.